prophase 1 metaphase 1 anaphase 1 and telophase 1 similarly meiosis II is divided into four phases prophase 2. metaphase 2 anaphase 2 And telophase 2. Meiosis 1 results in 2 haploid daughter cells due to the separation of the homologous chromosomes in the parent cell. meiosis 2 follows meiosis 1 and results in 4 haploid cells meiosis 2 resembles mitosis has the same number of chromosomes is retained in the daughter cells between the two. There was a short-lived resting stage known as interkinesis. During which the DNA doesn't replicate. Interkinesis is followed by prophase 2 a stage that is much simpler than prophase 1 during this phase the chromosomes get sicker shorter and distinct with each chromosome consisting of two chromatids. By the end of this phase the nucleolus disappears and the nuclear envelope disintegrates. Prophase 2 is followed by metaphase 2 during this phase. The chromosomes move towards the equator and align themselves along the equatorial plane. Bipolar spindles are formed and the microtubules from the opposite poles of each spin to attach themselves to the kind of the cause of the sister chromatids. The next phase of meiosis II is anaphase 2 early anaphase the centromere of each chromosome divide into two and splits the chromosome in the daughter chromosomes. These daughter chromosomes are then pulled to the opposite poles of the cell during the late anaphase stage. The Final Phase of meiosis II is telophase II during this phase do chromosomes reach the opposite poles and the nucleus with a nuclear membrane is organized that each bone. Did you know that all four nuclei differ from each other in genetic aspects do the crossing over in prophase 1? Telophase 2 is generally followed by cytokinesis during which the cytoplasm in each cell is equally divided. Resulting in the formation of four haploid daughter cells meiosis is a significant process in sexually reproducing organisms meiosis in germ cells followed by the fertilization of gametes restores the chromosome number in The Offspring of sexually reproducing organisms. Another significant feature of meiosis is that it leads to variation in Offspring due to the crossing over in prophase 1 during which genetic material combined variation important role in the process of organic evolution. Meiosis trees of life and Road in sexually reproducing organisms. The process takes place only in reproductive cells or germ cells and is also known as reduction division as the number of chromosomes is reduced to exactly half in the daughter cell.