The Continuous growth of the plant throughout its life It also destroys the nucleocytoplasmic ratio, which is Disturbed as a cell grows. Moldova mitosis results in the formation of new cells which replace dead cells put example blood cells and cells in the upper layers of the epidermis in the skin and the lining of the gut are continually replaced. That's mitosis is usually accompanied by cytokinesis and plays a vital role in the growth of organisms. In sexually reproducing organisms meiosis results in the formation of sperm cells and egg cells. Cells that undergo meiosis are diploid with two sets of chromosomes. However, these diploid cells after meiosis produce haploid cells with one set of chromosomes. Lisa during the process of fertilization these haploid cells fuse to form a diploid offspring. Does meiosis helps maintain the chromosome number in a species? Meiosis like mitosis is also preceded by an interphase stage during which DNA replicates and each chromosome doubled to consist of two identical strands of DNA. meiosis consists of two cell divisions namely meiosis 1 and 2 meiosis 1 is divided into four stages through Phase 1. metaphase 1 anaphase 1 and telophase 1 similarly to is divided into four phases. prophase 2 metaphase 2 anaphase 2 Meiosis 1 how is the number of chromosomes and meiosis to switch the sister chromatids of each chromosome? resulting in four haploid sounds meiosis 1 begins with prophase 1 which is typically more complex and last longer compared to the prophase of mitosis. based on chromosomal Behavior prophase 1 is divided into five phases family. Let the team. zygotene Packaging different team and die kinesis all to the left two team stage compaction of chromosomes continues and they gradually become visible under the microscope. As the DNA has already. each chromosome consists of two chromatids in the next stage. That is the psycho team stage. homologous chromosomes one from the paternal set and one from the maternal set get attracted to each other and form pairs. This wedding is called synopsis. during this process A complex structure known as complex is formed. this complex structure consists of a pair of homologous chromosomes called a tetrad or a Bible and Does I go team stage is followed by the packaging stage during which the bivalent chromosomes?