Motorola large protein complexes on the synaptonemal complex called recombination nodules begin to appear. These not use are believed to be the sites where crossing over occurs. Crossing over is an event unique to meiosis. An exchange of genetic material between nonsister chromatids of homologous chromosomes. The process of crossing-over is initiated by the enzyme recombinase and results in the recombination of genetic material between the two chromosomes. Crossing over is very significant during the formation of gamete as it results in new combinations of genes leading to genetic variation in The Offspring by the end of the package. Recombination between homologous chromosomes is complete and the chromosomes are linked at the sites of crossing over. The next stage in prophase 1 is the depleting stage. The beginning of this stage is marked by the dissolution of The synaptonemal Complex Motor. The recombined homologous chromosomes of the by balance display a tendency to separate from each other except at the crossover sites. The x-shaped part of the homologous chromosomes that holds the two together once they have crossed over is called a chiasmata. The dip looking stage can last for several months or years in the sights of set invertebrates? The final stage in prophase 1 is diakinesis. During which the chiasmata terminates Moldova. The chromosomes fully condense and become clearly visible. Play the meiotic spindle assembles and prepares the homologous chromosomes for separation. This stage represents the transition to metaphase 1 and ends with The Disappearance of the nucleolus and disintegration of the nuclear envelope. No in metaphase 1 The chromosomes line up along the equatorial plate of the cell and the spindle fibers get attached to the kinetochores of the homologous chromosome. metaphase 1 is followed by anaphase 1 in this phase the chromosomes pull apart from each other along the spindle fibers and move to opposite ends of the cell. The chromosomes are double-stranded with two sister chromatids connected at their centromeres. This marks the end of anaphase 1 which is Then followed by telophase 1 in this phase the chromosomes that are the pulled by the spindle fibers disintegrate and the nuclear envelope and the nucleolus reappear. Cell division or cytokinesis follows telophase 1 and results in two cells is referred to as a diet. Before meiosis 1 which progresses from prophase 1 to telophase 1 results in the formation of two cells with half the number of chromosomes compare to the original cell. meiosis consists of two cell divisions namely meiosis 1 and 2 meiosis 1 is divided into four stages.