remain metabolically active maruba in animal cells Floyd Floyd mitosis or karyokinesis along with cytokinesis defines the M phase of the mitosis phase of the cell cycle. during mitosis parent cell divides into two daughter cells Which I not only identical to each other but also to the parents. Mitosis is also known as equational division as both the parent and the daughter cells have the same number of chromosomes. Mitosis is a continuous process. however book convenience It is divided into four stages of nuclear division. namely prophase metaphase anaphase and telophase prophase is the first phase of mitosis and follows the S and the G2 phases of interphase. During the S phase. the DNA synthesizes or replicates and in the G2 phase the cell continues to grow but the DNA molecules form. Intertwined and not distinct. however during prophase chromatin condensation of the untangling of the chromosomal material takes place and a centriole that I duplicated during the S phase starts to move to the opposite poles of the cell. Certain characteristic events Mark the completion of prophase compact mitotic chromosomes are formed due to the condensation of chromosomal material. And each chromosome is made up of two chromatids attached together at the centromere. moruga The centrioles that moves to the opposite ends of the cell initiate the formation of the mitotic spindles with the help of the microtubules and the proteinaceous constituents of the cell cytoplasm. at the end of prophase the nucleolus endoplasmic reticulum Golgi complexes and nuclear envelope are not visible when viewed under a microscope. Prophase is followed by metaphase. The onset of which is marked by the disintegration of the nuclear membrane. Resulting in the scattering of the chromosomes in the cytoplasm. building the stage The chromosomes can be clearly seen and studied under the microscope as they condensation is complete each chromosome is made up of two sister chromatids bound together by a centromere. Each Central Mia has a small disk shaped structure on its surface called that I need to call. spindle fibers attach to the tiny to call